
1. draw causal insight and answer the why questions (what is causing)
2. predict future events (which customers)
3. understanding pattern in data (are there groups of customers)
a. groups that behave in a certain way

Data hierarchy of needs
1. collection (extract data from source systems)
2. storage (reliable storage)
3. preparation (organize and clean data to make it usable)
4. analysis (understanding trends, distributions and segments) (key indicators, dashboards)
5. machine learning, customer satisification (simple models) (prototyping and testing ml)
6. ml in production (crm, mobile, research, and automation)

unsupervised learning uses data points and assign similar groups into segments.

1. predict which customers are likely to purchase next month
2. predict each customer's expected lifetime value
a. determining who are the high value customers
b. use unsupervised learning
3. predict customer behaviors like default

unsupervised learning is used to group transactions into segments based on their attributes to understand which segments are the most profitable.

supervised learning
predict which items in production are likely faulty and should be manually inspected.
predict which machines are likely to break and need maintenance.

unsupervised learning group readings from machine sensors and identify anomolies for potential manufacturing malfunctions.

machine learning in transportation
a. predicted the expected delivery of the parcel
b. identify the fastest route for driving
c. predict production demand to prepare enough stock, rent/buy vehicles and hire workers


Job roles, tools and technologies

1. collection : (software engineers)
2. storage : (data engineers and software engineers - focus on data pipelines)
3. preparation: (data engineers, data analyst - usable data sets)
4. analysis (data analysts, data scientist - dashboards and score cards and analyze trends and machine learning methods to find data signal)
5. ml in production : (ml engineers - mobile and crm)

team structure
1. centralized (all data functions are in one functional team.  works well for small companies)
2. decentralized (each business unit has their own data functions. results in siols, redundancies and adds complexity)
3. hybrid (infrastructure)


prediction vs inference dilemma

inference or causal models: the goal is to understand the drivers of a business outcome
a) what are the main indicators of churn
b) what are the drivers of fraud
c) what features are the stickest
d) provide interpretable insights (interpretable means that its is easy to explain what the model does)
e) less accurate than prediction models.


prediction
a) get the best prediction no matter how complex the model is.
b) work more like a black box.
c) more accurate than inference

what are the main drivers of fraud (inferences)

how much conditions x impact heart attack (inferences)
which transactions are likely of fraud (prediction)
is the patient at risk of having a heart attack (prediction)


inference are interested in how much the attributes affect the outcome probability.


inference models

what is causality

identify causal relationship of how much certain actions affect an outcome of interest

answer the why questions
optimizes for model interpretability ver performance

experiments are designed and causal conclusions are guaranteed

experiments are not possible, observation data must be used to determine what data is causual associated.
 Comparision between healthy class and unhealthy class of people.
a.) use periodic experiment results to make decisions
b.) build an inference model.


Inference
regression coefficients tell us how much the feature input affect the outcome


supervised model

a. predicting class/type of an outcome (classification)

b. predicting quantity of outcome (dollars spent, hours played) - regression

unsupervised models

clustering - grouping observations into similar groups or clusters (customer segmentation and market segmentation)

supervised learning types: classification (categorical) and regression (contineous amounts)


machine learning teams collect data to predict the maximum outcome possible.
a) customer information
b) purchase history
c) job cancelations
d) order amounts
e) change order amounts


learn the rules to predict on unseen data, predict probability of the result.

in regression training, predict an amount for an outcome

unsupervised learning models

1. Clustering grouping observations into similar groups or clusters 
a. customer segmentation
b. market segmentation

Anomaly detection - detecting which observations fall out of the discovered "regular patterns" and use it as an input in supervisored learning or business input

recommendation 

example
a. Monetary Value, Recency, Frequency

The algorithm identifies similar segments or clusters


gathering business requirements

a. what is the business situation
b. assess the business opportunity by identifying the right markets with the biggest demand
c. what are the business actions to take. Prioritize and invest more in markets with higher predicted demand
- fraud detection (situation, opportunity, and action)
- business churn

situation
1. Ask the right questions
2. Start with inference questions ( why or which or how questions)
3. Build on the inference question to define the prediction question (identify or measure)

opportunity
1. don't spend more than you make (rule 1)
2. Size up the opportunity
a. once you know the drivers of outcome, how much will it cost changing them and what will be the value of doing that
b. how do you know if you can affect the predicted outcome

action
a. even if the predictions are very accurate they may not be actionable
b. look at the historical levels
c. run experiments and if the experiments have an impact on the targeted group.  If yes, use that to calculate opportunity and make decisions if its a worthwhile investment.
if no then collect more data and do qualitative research and narrow down the business question.


>>>model training

take the input features and target and train the model to predict on future data.

ways to measure classification performance
1. accuracy
2. recall
3. precision

churn example
a. purchases this year
b. number of customer complaints

accuracy is all correct predictions / all observations ( true positives)

precision is the correct predictions/ all observations predicted of that class

recall is the correct predictions/ all actual observations  (true positive/ (true positive + false negatives))

there is always tension between precision and recall

>>machine learning risks
1. low precision (only a small percentage of true positives are captured by the model)
2. low recall (small portion of the observations are captured by the model)
3. large error (regression you might get a large error when comparing actual to the predicted)
what is the cost to a mistake

How to test the model correctly

how to a/b test a model

a. at risk, run retention campaing
b. business as usual

measure the experiment against usual

What if test don't work?
1. get more data
2. business has experience of what is predictive
3. build causal models to understand drivers
4. change the scope of the problem

Mistakes

1. Machine learning first
2. not enough data
3. target variable definition
4. late testing, no impact
5. feature selection

Target variable definition:
a. what are you predicting.
b. Can we observe it (in depth analysis, business involved to define definition)

feature selection
a. inference - what affects the target variable (latency, price, delivery, customer service)


late testing, no impact (determine if any significant difference occurs)

Communication
1. Schedule recurring meetings to track progress and define the following:
a. Define the business requirements
b. Review machine learning model and business products
c. Define inference versus prediction use cases
d. Baseline model results & outline model updates
e. Market testing

Business Requirements
a. What is the business situation
b. What is the opportunity size? (expected quantity)
c. What business actions will we take (what are the targets)

1. inference into drivers of churn updated quarterly
a. daily customer classification into lost customers, customers at risk, no risk

2. real time list of risky transactions


All models are wrong but some are useful.  They will make mistakes.  The business will need to decide the tolerance for model mistakes.

identify what is the tolerance for model mistakes
a. classification - which class is more expenisve to mis-classify

regression


the business will have to decide how much more they will spend on waste resource because of the error.

what is the error tolerance for prediction

machine learning in production
a. are test results delivering consistent positive improvements?
b. is the model stable enough
c. Do we have systems and tools where the model should be integrated to

Steps to a target variable>>>
Define the target variable
Build a machine learning model predicting the outcome
Select customers with the predicted values and split into 2 groups a/b
Run certain actions eg marketing campaign, for group A and no actions for group B
Measure group A performance vs group B and conclude if there was an impact on the desired outcome


>>>>Production systems

1. Customer Relationship Management (crm)
2. Fraud detection system
3. Online banking platform
4. Autonomous cars

Customer relationships (campaigns)

Fraud detections automatically triggers transaction black and requests a manual review

Online banking platform
a.) discover customer behaviors
b.) help discover new products, a recommendor engine, customizing the web experience by only showing relevant products

staffing
a.) prototyping ml is done by data scientist and ml engineers
b.) ml in production is done by software engineers and data engineers and infrastructure owners

launch
a.) murphs law
b.) launch to a small subset of customers
c.) track results for consistency
d.) track performance, stability, customer feedback
e.) scale up
f.) repeat 3,4,5








































  















































